
# dtu42002a2: Optimal Production Investment and Economic Dispatch

$$
\begin{array}{c c c}
	\hline
	\text{Symbol} & \text{Definition} & \text{Example} \\
	\hline
	T & \text{Time Units} & (12:15, 12:45), (12:45, 13:15) \\
	J & \text{Controllable generation technologies} & \{\text{Gas Turbine}, \text{Biomass Power Generation}\} \\
	\hline
\end{array}
$$

_Table 1, summary of sets_

$$
\begin{array}{c l c c}
	\hline
	\text{Symbol} & \text{Definition} & \text{Unit} & \text{Set} \\
	\hline
	y_{j} & \text{Capacity of different generation technologies} & \text{MW} & J \\
	x_{j, t} & \text{Average power output during time interval} & \text{MW} & J, T \\
	z & \text{Percent of new wind turbine compared with installed} & \text{MW} & {\text{wind}} \\
	\hline
\end{array}
$$

_Table 2, summary of decision variables_

$$
\begin{array}{c l c c}
	\hline
	\text{Symbol} & \text{Definition} & \text{Unit} & \text{Set} \\
	\hline
	w_{t} & \text{Historical wind power output of installed turbines} & \text{MW} & T \\
	d_{t} & \text{Historical electricity demand} & \text{MW} & T \\
	a & \text{Length of the time interval} & \text{hour} & - \\
	c^{fix}_{j} & \text{Fixed cost per capacity of different generation technologies} & \text{DKK / MW} & J \\
	c^{fix, wind} & \text{Fixed cost per percent capacity of wind turbines} & \text{DKK / %} &{\text{wind}} \\
	c^{var}_{j} & \text{Production cost per unit output of different generation technologies} & \text{DKK / MW} & J \\
	s^{max}_{j} & \text{Max percent of controllable increment power output} & \text{%} & J \\
	\beta_{j} & \text{Minimum percent of load percent of full load} & \text{%} & J \\ \hline
\end{array}
$$

_Table 3, summary of constants_

$$
\begin{align}
\text{min} \quad & \sum_j c^{fix}_{i} y_{j} + c^{fix, wind} z + a \sum_j \sum_t c^{var}_{j} x_{j, t} \quad \text{(DKK)} \\
\text{s.t.} \quad & x_{j, t} \leq a y_{j} \quad \text{for } j \in J, t \in T \quad \text{(MWh)} \\
& \sum_j x_{j, t} \geq d_{t} - w_{t} * z \quad \text{for } j \in J, t \in T \quad \text{(MWh)} \\
& - s^{max}_{j} y_{j} \leq x_{j, t+1} - x_{j, t} \leq s^{max}_{j} y_{j} \quad \text{for } j \in J, t \in T \quad \text{(MWh)} \\
& x_{j, t} \geq \beta_{j} \quad \text{for } j \in J, t \in T \quad \text{(MWh)}
\end{align}
$$

### Important Parameters

$$
\begin{array}{c c c}
	\hline
	\text{Symbol} & \text{Unit} & \text{Value} \\
	\hline
	a &  \text{hour} & 0.5 \\
	c^{fix}_{1} &  \text{DKK / MW} &  \\
	c^{fix}_{2} &  \text{DKK / MW} &  \\
	c^{fix, wind} & \text{DKK / %} &  \\
	c^{var}_{1} & \text{DKK / MW} & \\
	c^{var}_{2} & \text{DKK / MW} & \\
	s^{max}_{1} & \text{%} & \\
	s^{max}_{2} & \text{%} & \\
	\beta_{1} & \text{%} & \\ 
	\beta_{2} & \text{%} & \\ \hline
\end{array}
$$

_Table 3, summary of important constants_

## Data Sets

### Simulated Forecast

> In the day-ahead market, the wind forecast is simulated based on the realization of WG and the simulation of wind forecast error. The realization of WG is assumed to be the same as historical data. Wind forecast error is simulated based on a probability distribution considering the associated temporal correlation. Demand forecast is also simulated using this approach. [1]


## Analysis of Result

### Wind Curtailment

Comparison of wind curtailment when wind penetration is high with and without electric vehicles.

## Sensitivity Analysis

## References

1. Ma, J., Silva, V., Belhomme, R., Kirschen, D.S. and Ochoa, L.F., 2013, July. Evaluating and planning flexibility in sustainable power systems. In 2013 IEEE power & energy society general meeting (pp. 1-11). IEEE.
